README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Transcription factor Occupancy Profiler (`TOP`)

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

TOP fits a Bayesian hierarchical model using transcription factor (TF)
motifs, DNase- or ATAC-seq data, as well as ChIP-seq data (only required
in training) from multiple TFs across multiple cell types.

It can be used to predict the quantitative occupancy or binding
probability for many TFs using data from a single DNase- or ATAC-seq
experiment. Thus, it allows efficient profiling of quantitative TF
occupancy landscapes across multiple cell types or conditions using
DNase- or ATAC-seq experiments.

<img src="man/figures/schematic.png" width="90%" />

## TOP websites

-   [TOP R package website](https://HarteminkLab.github.io/TOP)
-   [TOP paper resources
    website](https://harteminklab.github.io/TOP-paper-resources): a
    companion website for the `TOP` package, which contains the data
    resources and data processing pipelines for the `TOP` paper.

## Install TOP R package

You can install the development version of `TOP` from
[GitHub](https://github.com/HarteminkLab/TOP) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("HarteminkLab/TOP")
```

After installing, check that it loads properly:

``` r
library(TOP)
```

## Tutorials

Please follow the
[tutorials](https://HarteminkLab.github.io/TOP/articles/index.html) to
learn how to use the package.

## Reference

-   Luo K, Zhong J, Safi A, Hong LK, Tewari AK, Song L, Reddy TE, Ma L,
    Crawford GE, Hartemink AJ. Profiling the quantitative occupancy of
    myriad transcription factors across conditions by modeling chromatin
    accessibility data. Genome Res. 2022 Jun;32(6):1183-1198. doi:
    10.1101/gr.272203.120.

## License

All source code and software in this repository are made available under
the terms of the [MIT
license](https://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.html).

Commit message:

added a note about pretrained data in human

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Transcription factor Occupancy Profiler (`TOP`)

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

TOP fits a Bayesian hierarchical model using transcription factor (TF)
motifs, DNase- or ATAC-seq data, as well as ChIP-seq data (only required
in training) from multiple TFs across multiple cell types.

It can be used to predict the quantitative occupancy or binding
probability for many TFs using data from a single DNase- or ATAC-seq
experiment. Thus, it allows efficient profiling of quantitative TF
occupancy landscapes across multiple cell types or conditions using
DNase- or ATAC-seq experiments.

<img src="man/figures/schematic.png" width="90%" />

## TOP websites

- [TOP R package website](https://HarteminkLab.github.io/TOP)
- [TOP paper resources
  website](https://harteminklab.github.io/TOP-paper-resources): a
  companion website for the `TOP` package, which contains pretrained TOP
  model parameters and precomputed TF occupancy predictions in *human*,
  and data processing pipelines for the `TOP` paper.

## Install TOP R package

You can install the development version of `TOP` from
[GitHub](https://github.com/HarteminkLab/TOP) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("HarteminkLab/TOP")
```

After installing, check that it loads properly:

``` r
library(TOP)
```

## Tutorials

Please follow the
[tutorials](https://HarteminkLab.github.io/TOP/articles/index.html) to
learn how to use the package.

## Reference

- Luo K, Zhong J, Safi A, Hong LK, Tewari AK, Song L, Reddy TE, Ma L,
  Crawford GE, Hartemink AJ. Profiling the quantitative occupancy of
  myriad transcription factors across conditions by modeling chromatin
  accessibility data. Genome Res. 2022 Jun;32(6):1183-1198. doi:
  10.1101/gr.272203.120.

## License

All source code and software in this repository are made available under
the terms of the [MIT
license](https://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.html).
